.TH MSR_UNPACK 3 2012/12/22 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Unpacking of Mini-SEED records.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int \fBmsr_unpack\fP ( char *" record ", int " reclen ", MSRecord **" ppmsr ",
.BI "                 flag " dataflag ", flag " verbose " );
.fi

.BI "int \fBmsr_unpack_data\fP ( MSRecord *" msr ", int " swapflag ", flag " verbose " );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsr_unpack\fP will unpack a Mini-SEED data record and populate a
MSRecord data structure, optionally unpacking data samples.  All
multi-byte quantities will be byte-swapped to the host byte order.
The MSRecord data structure is described in \fBms_intro(3)\fP.

The \fIreclen\fP parameter specifies the length of the data record
pointed to by \fIrecord\fP in bytes.

If the \fI*ppmsr\fP pointer is NULL a new MSRecord will be allocated,
if not the existing MSRecord will be reinitialized and reused
destroying any previous contents.  The \fIppmsr\fP pointer itself must
not be NULL.

If the \fIdataflag\fP flag is not zero any data samples in the record
will be unpacked/decompressed.  The following data encoding formats
are supported: ASCII, INT16, INT32, FLOAT32, FLOAT64, STEIM1 and
STEIM2.  The MSRecord.datasamples pointer will be set appropriately
and the samples will be either ASCII, 32-bit integers, 32-bit floats
or 64-bit floats with the same byte order as the host machine.
MSRecord.numsamples will be set to the actual number of samples
unpacked/decompressed.  MSRecord.sampletype will indicated the sample
type as either 'a' (ASCII), 'i' (32-bit integers), 'f' (32-bit floats)
or 'd' (64-bit doubles).  The size of each sample type in bytes is
returned by the get_samplesize(3) lookup routine.

The \fIverbose\fP flag controls verbosity, a value of zero will result
in no diagnostic output.

\fBmsr_unpack_data\fP will unpack the data samples for an already
parsed MSRecord structure from the original record available at the
\fIMSRecord->record\fP pointer.  Normally this is called by
\fBmsr_unpack\fP when the \fIdataflag\fP is not zero, but it can be
useful when the program needs to first unpack the header of a record
and decide later if the samples are needed.  If called independently
the caller must determine if byte swapping of data samples is needed.

.SH UNPACKING OVERRIDES
The following macros and environment variables effect the unpacking of
Mini-SEED:

.nf
Macros:
MS_UNPACKHEADERBYTEORDER(X)
MS_UNPACKDATABYTEORDER(X)
MS_UNPACKDATAFORMAT(X)
MS_UNPACKDATAFORMATFALLBACK(X)

Environment variables:
UNPACK_HEADER_BYTEORDER
UNPACK_DATA_BYTEORDER
UNPACK_DATA_FORMAT
UNPACK_DATA_FORMAT_FALLBACK
.fi

The UNPACK_HEADER_BYTEORDER and UNPACK_DATA_BYTEORDER macros and
variables force the byte order of the header and data respectively.
They could be set to either 0 (little endian) or 1 (big endian).  See
\fBms_intro(3)\fP for a description of how libmseed determines a
records byte order.

The UNPACK_DATA_FORMAT macro and variable forces the encoding format,
this should be set to any of the supported formats codes (i.e. 10 =
Steim-1 compression).

The UNPACK_DATA_FORMAT_FALLBACK macro and variable defines an encoding
format that will be used when the SEED data record does not indicate
the format, i.e. the record does not include a 1000 blockette.  By
default the fallback encoding format is 10 (Steim-1 compression).  If
this default is invoked and the byte order of the data is unspecified
big endian byte order will be assumed.  If a data record does not
include a 1000 blockette it is not Mini-SEED, the capability to read
these records is included only to support legacy data.

.SH RETURN VALUE

On the sucessful parsing of a record \fBmsr_unpack\fP returns
MS_NOERROR and populates the MSRecord struct at *ppmsr.  On error
\fBmsr_unpack\fP returns a libmseed error code (defined in libmseed.h)

.SH EXAMPLE
Skeleton code for unpacking a Mini-SEED record with msr_unpack(3):

.nf
main() {
  MSRecord *msr = NULL;
  char *record;
  int reclen;
  int retcode;

  record = recordptr;   /* pointer to Mini-SEED record */
  reclen = 4096;        /* 4096 byte record length */

  /* Unpack record header and data samples */
  retcode = msr_unpack (record, reclen, &msr, 1, verbose);

  if ( retcode != MS_NOERROR )
    fprintf (stderr, "Error parsing record\\n");
  else
    printf ("Unpacked %d samples\n", msr->numsamples);

  /* Print record information */
  msr_print (msr, verbose);

  msr_free (&msr);
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmsr_pack(3)\fP and \fBmsr_print(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
