.TH MST_ADDMSR 3 2013/05/17 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Add time coverage and data samples to MSTrace structures

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int    *\fBmst_addmsr\fP ( MSTrace *" mst ", MSRecord *" msr ", flag " whence " );

.BI "int     \fBmst_addspan\fP ( MSTrace *" mst ", hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime ",
.BI "                      void *" datasamples ", int64_t " numsamples ",
.BI "                      char " sampletype ",  flag " whence " );

.BI "MSTrace  *\fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", MSRecord *" msr ",
.BI "                              flag " dataquality ", double " timetol ",
.BI "                              double " sampratetol " );

.BI "MSTrace  *\fBmst_addtracetogroup\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", MSTrace *" mst " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provides different ways of adding time coverage to
MSTrace objects.  A common way to organize MSTrace objects is with a
MSTraceGroup.  The \fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP provides a convenient way to add
MSRecord data to a MSTraceGroup, hiding many of the details of MSTrace
matching and bookkeeping.

\fBmst_addmsr\fP will add the time coverage from a MSRecord to a
MSTrace.  The start or end time will be updated and data samples copied
if they exist.  No checking is done to verify that the record matches
the trace in any way.  If \fIwhence\fP is 1 the MSRecord coverage will
be added at the end of the MSTrace.  If \fIwhence\fP is 2 the MSRecord
coverage will be added at the beginning of the MSTrace.

\fBmst_addspan\fP does the same thing as \fBmsr_addmsr\fP except that
time coverage and data samples are explicitly provided.  See
\fBms_time(3)\fP for a description of the high precision epoch time
format needed for \fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP.  See the
\fBWaveform Data\fP section of \fBms_intro(3)\fP for a description of
data sample representation.

\fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP adds time coverage from the specified MSRecord
to the first adjacent MSTrace found in the specified MSTraceGroup.  If
the \fIdataquality\fP flag is true traces will be grouped by quality
in addition to the source name identifiers.  \fBmst_findadjacent(3)\fP
is used with the specified sample rate and time tolerances to find an
adjacent trace, see \fBmst_findadjacent(3)\fP for further details.  If
no adjacent MSTrace is found a new MSTrace will be added to the
MSTraceGroup.

\fBmst_addtracetogroup\fP adds a MSTrace structure to a MSTraceGroup
structure.  The MSTrace is added at the end of the MSTrace chain.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_addmsr\fP and \fBmst_addspan\fP return 0 on success and -1 on
error.

\fBmst_addmsrtogroup\fP returns a pointer to the MSTrace updated or 0 on
error.

\fBmst_addtracetogroup\fP returns a pointer to the MSTrace added or 0 on
error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmst_init(3)\fP, \fBmst_findadjacent(3)\fP and
\fBms_time(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
