.TH MST_FINDMATCH 3 2006/02/27 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Searching a MSTraceGroup for specific MSTrace structures.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "MSTrace  *\fBmst_findmatch\fP ( MSTrace *" startmst ", char " dataquality ",
.BI "                          char *" network ", char *" station ",
.BI "                          char *" location ", char *" channel " );

.BI "MSTrace  *\fBmst_findadjacent\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ",
.BI "                             flag *" whence ", char " dataquality ",
.BI "                             char *" network ", char *" station ",
.BI "                             char *" location ", char *" channel ",
.BI "                             double " samprate ", double " sampleratetol ", 
.BI "                             hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime ",
.BI "                             double " timetol ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmst_findmatch\fP traverses a MSTrace chain starting at
\fIstartmst\fP and returns the first entry that matches the source
name identifiers.  If \fIdataquality\fP is not zero it must also match
the found entry.  A calling program commonly calls this routine in a
loop in order to find all matching MSTraces in a MSTraceGroup.

\fBmst_findadjacent\fP finds the first entry in the MSTraceGroup
pointed to by \fImstg\fP that matches the given source name
identifiers and is time adjacent to the time coverage described by the
\fIsamprate\fP, \fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP.  If
\fIdataquality\fP is not zero it must also match the found entry.  See
\fBms_time(3)\fP for a description of the high precision epoch time
format needed for \fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP.

The tolerance for sample rate and time matching can also be specified.
If \fIsampratetol\fP is -1.0 the default tolerance of abs(1-sr1/sr2) <
0.0001 is used.  If \fItimetol\fP is -1.0 the default time tolerance
of 1/2 the sample period will be used.  If \fIsampratetol\fP or
\fItimetol\fP is -2.0 the respective tolerance check will not be
performed.  If time tolerance is not checked \fIwhence\fP will be set
to whichever end fits best.  The time tolerance is specified in
seconds.

When an adjacent MSTrace is found the \fIwhence\fP flag will be set to
indicate where the indicated time span is adjacent in the following
way:
.sp
.nf
1: time span fits at the end of the MSTrace
2: time span fits at the beginning of the MSTrace
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_findmatch\fP returns a pointer to the matching MSTrace structure 
or 0 if no match found or error.

\fBmst_findadjacent\fP returns a pointer to the adjacent MSTrace
structure and the \fIwhence\fP flag is set when an adjacent MSTrace is
found or 0 when no adjacent MSTrace is found.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmst_init(3)\fP and \fBms_time(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
