.TH MST_GROUPSORT 3 2007/04/12 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manipulate MSTrace segments in a MSTraceGroup

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "MSTrace  *\fBmst_groupsort\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", flag " quality " );

.BI "MSTrace  *\fBmst_groupheal\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", double " timetol ",
.BI "                          double " sampratetol " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmst_groupsort\fP will sort the MSTrace segments in a MSTraceGroup
first on the source name (as returned by \fBmst_srcname\fP), then on
start time, then on descending end time, and finally on sample rate.
The \fIquality\fP flag, passed directly to \fBmst_srcname\fP, controls
the addition of the quality indicator to the source name and thus the
addition of sorting on the quality indicator (but only if the MSTrace
has an associated quality, see \fBmst_srcname(3)\fP for more details).

\fBmst_groupheal\fP will attempt to heal MSTrace segments in a
MSTraceGroup if they fit within the specified time and sample rate
tolerance (\fItimetol\fP and \fIsampratetol\fP respectively).  This is
useful when, for whatever reason, the MSTraceGroup has separate
MSTrace segments which belong together.  This usually only happens
when data is added to a MSTraceGroup in random data time order.
Before attempting to heal the MSTraces the MSTraceGroup will be sorted
using \fBmst_groupsort\fP.

If \fIsampratetol\fP is -1.0 the default tolerance of abs(1-sr1/sr2)
is used.  If \fItimetol\fP is -1.0 the default time tolerance of 1/2
the sample period will be used.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmst_groupsort\fP returns 0 on success and -1 on error.

\fBmst_groupheal\fP returns the number of MSTrace segments merged on
success and -1 on error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP and \fBmst_srcname(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
