.TH MSTL_PRINT 3 2008/11/21 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Printing of MSTrace information.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "void   \fBmstl_printtracelist\fP ( MSTraceList *" mstl ", flag " timeformat ","
.BI "                             flag " details ", flag " gaps " );"

.BI "void   \fBmstl_printsynclist\fP ( MSTraceList *" mstl ", char *" dccid ","
.BI "                            flag " subsecond " );"

.BI "void   \fBmstl_printgaplist\fP ( MSTraceList *" mstl ", flag " timeformat ","
.BI "                           double *" mingap ", double *" maxgap " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmstl_printtracelist\fP prints a formatted list of the trace
segments in the given MSTraceList.  If the \fIdetails\fP flag is
greater than 0 the sample rate and sample count are printed for each
trace.  If the \fIgaps\fP flag is greater than zero the time gap from
the previous segment is printed.  All output is printed using
\fBms_log(3)\fP at level 0.

\fBmstl_printsynclist\fP prints a formatted list of the trace segments
in the given MSTraceList similar to \fBmstl_printtracelist\fP but the
format is a SYNC listing.  If a \fIdccid\fP string is supplied it will
be used along with the current system date to create the SYNC header
line.  If the \fIsubsecond\fP flag is true (non-zero) the time values
in the SYNC lines will include full libmseed precision, otherwise they
will be truncted to integer second values.

\fBmstl_printgaplist\fP prints a formatted list of the gaps between
trace segments in the given MSTraceList.  If \fImingap\fP or
\fImaxgap\fP is not NULL their values will be enforced and only
gaps/overlaps matching their implied criteria will be printed.

The \fItimeformat\fP argument for both \fBmstl_printtracelist\fP and
\fBmstl_printgaplist\fP controls the format of the resulting time
strings.  Possible formats are:

.nf
0 : SEED time format (2005,146,00:00:00.000000)
1 : ISO time format (2005-05-26T00:00:00.000000)
2 : Epoch time, seconds since the epoch (1117065600.00000000)
.fi

Both \fBmstl_printtracelist\fP and \fBmstl_printgaplist\fP represent
time overlaps as negative gaps.  For a single sample overlap the value
of the gap is calculated as zero, this will be printed as "-0" or
negative zero to indicate an overlap.

.SH GAP/OVERLAP RULES
The existence of gaps and overlaps is implicit in the structure of the
MSTraceList, no special processing is done to detect gaps and overlaps
in these routines.

The value of a gap is calculated as the difference between the time of
the last sample before the gap and the time of the first sample after
the gap.  No sample 'coverage' time is included.

The value of an overlap is calculated as the time between two samples
which represent the maximum amount of timeseries overlap.

When the traces in the MSTraceList include a small segment that is
completely overlapped by another larger segment the gap/overlap value
will not be correct for either the smaller segment or the segment
following it.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
