.TH MSR_NORMALIZE_HEADER 3 2007/04/28 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Normalize or synchronize the header fields of an MSRecord structure.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int  \fBmsr_normalize_header\fP ( MSRecord *" msr ", flag " verbose );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsr_normalize_header\fP updates the SEED structures associated with
an MSRecord structure (MSRecord.fsdh and the blockette chain at
MSRecord.blkts) with primary values stored at the MSRecord level
(e.g. MSRecord.starttime, MSRecord.samprate, etc.).

The long explanation is that certain key values (start time, sample
rate, etc.) are duplicated in a given MSRecord structure.  For example
the start time is stored at both MSRecord.starttime and in the BTIME
structure in the FSDH at MSRecord.fsdh.  The base values at the
MSRecord level (e.g. MSRecord.starttime) are always the primary
values.  But before the data record can be packed these values must be
translated back into the SEED structures.  For these duplicated values
the \fBmsr_normalize_header\fP routine peforms this translation.
Normally this routine will be called via internal functions when
\fBmsr_pack\fP is called, it could also be used to synchronize the
header values when they are directly modified.

.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBmsr_normalize_header\fP returns the header length in bytes on
success and -1 on error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmsr_pack(3)\fP and \fBmsr_pack_header(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
