.TH MS_SPLITSRCNAME 3 2009/12/19 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Split source names into the SEED naming nomenclature.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "char  *\fBms_splitsrcname\fP ( char *" srcname ", char *" net ", char * " sta ","
.BI "                         char * " loc ", char *" chan ", char *" qual " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBms_splitsrcname\fP routine parses SEED channel naming
components from a source name string in the following format:

.nf
"NET_STA_LOC_CHAN[_QUAL]"
.fi

The first four components are required to uniquely identify a SEED
channel, generally these are always present in a \fIsrcname\fP.  The
Quality code is normally optional in a source name.

The arguments for the first four components (net, sta, loc & chan) are
treated as strings but the quality code (qual) is treated as a pointer
to a single character.

Memory for the requested component strings must already be allocated.
If a component pointer is NULL it will not be parsed from the string.

Source names in the expected format are created, for example, by the
\fBms_recsrcname(3)\fP, \fBmsr_srcname(3) and \fBmst_srcname(3)\fP
routines.

.SH LOCATION IDS AND SPACES
The source name should never include spaces.  The fixed format nature
of SEED data records leads to blank or unused location IDs represented
by spaces, in a source name such blank location IDs should be
collapsed to nothing in the resulting sources names.  A blank location
ID is parsed from a source name as an empty string (not two spaces).

.SH EXAMPLES
This usage will result in net="IU", sta="ANMO", loc="00",
chan="BHZ" and qual will remain unchanged (because it was not
contained in the input srcname):
.nf

ms_splitsrcname("IU_ANMO_00_BHZ", net, sta, loc, chan, qual);

.fi
This usage will limit the parsing to only the network and station
components with net="IU", sta="ANMO":
.nf

ms_splitsrcname("IU_ANMO_00_BHZ", net, sta, NULL, NULL, NULL);

.fi
The following usage illustrates a blank location ID and included
quality code:
.nf

ms_splitsrcname("IU_ANMO__BHZ_Q", net, sta, loc, chan, qual);

.fi
The result is:
.nf

net = "IU"
sta = "ANMO"
loc = ""
chan = "BHZ"
qual = 'Q'
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
Return 0 on success and -1 on error.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_recsrcname(3)\fP, \fBmsr_srcname(3) and \fBmst_srcname(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
