.TH MS_SRCNAME 3 2006/11/27 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Determine source names using the SEED naming nomenclature.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "char  *\fBms_recsrcname\fP ( char *" record ", char *" srcname ", flag " quality " );"

.BI "char  *\fBmsr_srcname\fP ( MSRecord *" msr ", char *" srcname ", flag " quality " );"

.BI "char  *\fBmst_srcname\fP ( MSTrace *" mst ", char *" srcname ", flag " quality " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines generate a source name using the SEED naming
nomenclature in the format: 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN' and stores it in the
buffer provided at \fIsrcname\fP.  If the \fIquality\fP flag is true
the data quality character will be appended to the source name
resulting in a format of: 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN_QUAL'.

The memory pointed to by \fIsrcname\fP must have enough room for the
resulting string.  As of SEED 2.4 this is a maximum of 18 characters
including the terminating NULL.  The MSRecord and MSTrace structs are
capable of producing a source name of 42 characters (including the
terminating NULL) and libmseed commonly allocates 50 characters for
the \fIsrcname\fP buffer.

\fBms_recsrcname\fP generates a source name string for the SEED data
record at \fIrecord\fP.  If the \fIquality\fP flag is true the quality
character will be appended.

\fBmsr_srcname\fP generates a source name string for the specified
MSRecord struct.  If the \fIquality\fP flag is true the quality
character will be appended.

\fBmst_srcname\fP generates a source name string in for the specified
MSTrace struct.  If the \fIquality\fP flag is true *and*
mst->dataquality is not zero the quality character will be appended.

.SH LOCATION IDS AND SPACES
The source name produced by these routines never include spaces.  The
fixed format nature of SEED data records leads to blank or unused
location IDs represented by spaces.  Such blank location IDs will be
collapsed to nothing in the resulting sources names.

.SH RETURN VALUES
The routines return a pointer to the resulting string or NULL on
error.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
