.TH MSR_PACK 3 2007/08/16 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Packing of Mini-SEED records.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int       \fBmsr_pack\fP ( MSRecord *" msr ","
.BI "                     void (*" record_handler ") (char *, int, void *),"
.BI "                     void *" handlerdata ", int *" packedsamples ","
.BI "                     flag " flush ", flag " verbose " );"

.BI "int       \fBmsr_pack_header\fP ( MSRecord *" msr ", flag " normalize ","
.BI "                            flag " verbose " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsr_pack\fP creates (packs) Mini-SEED data records.  Using the
record header values in a MSRecord data structure, \fImsr\fP, as a
template, the common header fields and blockettes are packed into a
record header.  A Blockette 1000 will be added if one is not present
in the template.  The data samples at MSRecord.datasamples are packed
in the encoding format indicated by the MSRecord.encoding field.  The
MSRecord.datasamples array and MSRecord.numsamples value will not be
changed by this routine.  It is the responsibility of the calling
routine to adjust the data buffer if desired.  This routine will
modify the start time and sequence number of the MSRecord template as
it packs records.

The key characteristics of data record & quality indicator, record
length, encoding format and byte order of packed records are taken
from \fBMSRecord.dataquality\fP, \fBMSRecord.reclen\fP,
\fBMSRecord.encoding\fP and \fBMSRecord.byteorder\fP respectively.
Default values for these quantities will be used when the indicator is
0 or the reclen, encoding or byteorder are -1 respectively.  The
default values are: dataquality = 'D', reclen = 4096 bytes, encoding =
11 (Steim2) and byteorder = 1 (MSBF or big-endian).

\fBMSRecord.dataquality\fP should be either 'D', 'R', 'Q' or 'M'.

\fBMSRecord.reclen\fP should be set to the desired data record length in
bytes which must be expressible as 2 raised to the power of X where X
is between (and including) 8 to 20.

\fBMSRecord.encoding\fP should be set to one of the following
supported Mini-SEED data encoding formats: DE_ASCII (0), DE_INT16 (1),
DE_INT32 (3), DE_FLOAT32 (4), DE_FLOAT64 (5), DE_STEIM1 (10) and
DE_STEIM2 (11).  The encoding aliases are defined in libmseed.h.

\fBMSRecord.sampletype\fP should indicated the sample type as
either 'a' (ASCII), 'i' (32-bit integers), 'f' (32-bit floats) or 'd'
(64-bit doubles).

The encoding format must be appropriate for the sample type.  For
example, Steim compression and integer encoding formats require
integer samples and float encoding formats require the appropriate
size floats as input.  As a counter example, float samples cannot be
packed using Steim compression or integer encoding formats.

\fBMSRecord.byteorder\fP must be either 0 (LSBF or little-endian) or 1
(MBF or big-endian).

Each time a complete record is packed it will be passed to the
\fIrecord_handler()\fP function which expects three arguments: 1) a
char * to the record buffer, 2) the length of the record in bytes and
3) a void pointer supplied by the caller.  It is the responsibility of
\fIrecord_handler()\fP to process the record, the memory will be
re-used or freed when \fIrecord_handler()\fP returns.  This function
pointer is required, there is no other way to access the packed
records.

The \fIhandlerdata\fP pointer will be passed as the 3rd argument to
\fIrecord_handler()\fP.  This allows the caller to optionally pass
data directly to the \fIrecord_handler()\fP.

The integer pointed to by \fIpackedsamples\fP will be set to the total
number of samples packed if not NULL.

If the \fIflush\fP flag is not zero all of the data will be packed
into records, otherwise records will only be packed while there are
enough data samples to completely fill a record.

The \fIverbose\fP flag controls verbosity, a value of zero will result
in no diagnostic output.

\fBmsr_pack_header\fP packs header information, fixed section and
blockettes, in a MSRecord structure into the Mini-SEED record at
MSRecord.record.  This is useful for re-packing record headers after
modification.  The \fInormalize\fP flag controls whether
msr_normalize_header() is called before the header is packed.
Normalizing updates the SEED structures associated with the MSRecord
with values using the MSRecord base members (e.g. MSRecord.network,
MSRecord.samplerate, etc.).  Normally this should be set to true (1)
unless the associated SEED structures have been directly modified.
The \fIverbose\fP flag controls verbosity, a value of zero will result
in no diagnostic output.

.SH PACKING OVERRIDES
The following macros and environment variables effect the packing of
Mini-SEED:

.nf
Macros:
MS_PACKHEADERBYTEORDER(X)
MS_PACKDATABYTEORDER(X)

Environment variables:
PACK_HEADER_BYTEORDER
PACK_DATA_BYTEORDER
.fi

These macros and environment variables force the byte order of the
header and data respectively.  They could be set to either 0 (little
endian) or 1 (big endian).  Normally the byte order of the header and
data is determined by the byteorder flag of the MSRecord, this
capability is included to support any combination of byte orders in a
generalized way.

.SH COMPRESSION HISTORY
When the encoding format is Steim 1 or 2 compression contiguous
records will be created including compression history.  Put simply,
this means that the first difference in the compression series will be
the difference between the first sample of the current record and the
last sample of the previous record.  For the first record in a series
(no previous record), a so-called cold start, the first difference
will be zero.

The compression history can be seeded by allocating the StreamState
struct for the MSRecord and setting the \fBlastintsample\fP member to
the integer sample value that preceded the first sample in the current
series and setting the \fBcomphistory\fP flag to true (1).

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmsr_pack\fP returns the number records created on success and -1 on
error.

\fBmsr_pack_header\fP returns the header length in bytes on success
and -1 on error.

.SH EXAMPLE
Skeleton code for creating (packing) Mini-SEED records with
msr_pack(3):

.nf
static void record_handler (char *record, int reclen, void *srcname) {
  if ( fwrite(record, reclen, 1, outfile) != 1 )
    {
      ms_log (2, "Error writing %s to output file\n", (char *)srcname);
    }
}

main() {
  int psamples;
  int precords;
  MSRecord *msr;
  char srcname[50];

  msr = msr_init (NULL);

  /* Populate MSRecord values */
  strcpy (msr->network, "XX");
  strcpy (msr->station, "TEST");
  strcpy (msr->channel, "BHE");
  msr->starttime = ms_seedtimestr2hptime ("2004,350,00:00:00.00");
  msr->samprate = 40.0;
  msr->reclen = 4096;         /* 4096 byte record length */
  msr->encoding = DE_STEIM2;  /* Steim 2 compression */
  msr->byteorder = 1;         /* big endian byte order */

  msr->datasamples = dataptr; /* pointer to 32-bit integer data samples */  
  msr->numsamples = 1234;
  msr->sampletype = 'i';      /* declare type to be 32-bit integers */

  msr_srcname (msr, srcname, 0);

  /* Pack the record(s) */
  precords = msr_pack (msr, &record_handler, srcname, &psamples, 1, verbose);

  ms_log (0, "Packed %d samples into %d records\n", psamples, precords);

  msr_free (&msr);
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP, \fBmst_pack(3)\fP, \fBmst_packgroup(3)\fP,
\fBmsr_normalize_header(3)\fP and \fBmsr_unpack(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
