.TH MSTL_INIT 3 2008/11/21 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Adding MSRecord data coverage to and MSTraceList structure

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "MSTraceSeg *\fBmstl_addmsr\fP ( MSTraceList *" mstl ", MSRecord *" msr ","
.BI "                          flag " dataquality ", flag " autoheal ","
.BI "                          double " timetol ", double " sampratetol " );"

.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmstl_addmsr\fP adds the data coverage in a MSRecord structure to
the specified MSTraceList structure.  If data samples are associated
with the MSRecord they will also be added to the MSTraceList.  New
MSTraceID and MSTraceSeg sub-structures will be created and added to
the MSTraceList as needed.

Each MSTraceList contains a list of trace IDs as MSTraceID structures
each of which contain a list of time segments as MSTraceSeg
structures.  This routine will maintain the list of trace IDs in
alphanumeric sort order and the subsequent time segments in time
order.

If the \fIdataquality\fP flag is true traces will be grouped by
quality in addition to the source name identifiers, in short
differentiate using quality or not.

If the \fIautoheal\fP flag is true any two trace segments which would
fit together due to the addition of the new MSRecord coverage will be
merged.  The only reason to set this option to false (0) is if the
\fBprvtptr\fP pointer member of the MSTraceSeg structures is being
used since libmseed has no knowledge how such data should be merged.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmstl_addmsr\fP returns NULL on error and a pointer to the
MSTraceSeg structure to which the data coverage was added on success.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmstl_init(3)\fP and \fBmstl_free(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
