.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH OBSPY-SCAN 1 "June 30, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7) and groff_man(7)
.\" .SH        section heading
.\" .SS        secondary section heading
.\"
.\"
.\" To preview this page as plain text: nroff -man obspy-scan
.\"
.SH NAME
obspy-scan \- Show plot of available data ranges
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obspy-scan
.RI [ options ] " filename" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Plot range of available data in files. Gaps are plotted as vertical red
lines, startimes of available data are plotted as crosses. The sampling
rate must stay the same of each station, but can vary between the stations.
.
Supported formats: MSEED, GSE2, SAC, WAV, SH-ASC, SH-Q, SEISAN. If the
format option (-f) is specified, the reading is significantly faster,
otherwise the format is autodetected. This manual page was only written as
it is necessary for the Debian package.
.SH OPTIONS
All options are available by calling obspy-scan --help
.br
.sp 1
.B \-\-help
Display extensive help an all other available options
.SH AUTHOR
obspy-scan was written by ObsPy Development Team <devs@obspy.org>. This manual page was written by the ObsPy Development Team <devs@obspy.org> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
