.TH MSR_PARSE 3 2013/01/07 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Detect and parse a SEED data record from a memory buffer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "int  \fBmsr_parse\fP ( char *" record ", int " recbuflen ", MSRecord " **ppmsr "," 
.BI "                 int " reclen ", flag " dataflag ", flag " verbose " );"

.BI "int  \fBmsr_parse_selection\fP ( char *" recbuf ", int " recbuflen ","
.BI "                           int64_t *" offset ", MSRecord " **ppmsr ","
.BI "                           int " reclen ", Selections *" selections ","
.BI "                           flag " dataflag ", flag " verbose " );"

.BI "int  \fBms_detect\fP ( const char *" record ", int " recbuflen " );"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsr_parse\fP will parse a SEED data record from the \fIrecord\fP
buffer and populate the MSRecord structure at \fIppmsr\fP, allocating
one if needed.  The \fIrecbuflen\fP argument is the length of the
\fIrecord\fP buffer.  Records must begin at the start of the buffer.

If \fIreclen\fP is 0 or negative the length of record is automatically
determined, otherwise \fIreclen\fP should be the correct record
length.  For auto detection of record length the record should include
a 1000 blockette or be followed by another record header in the
buffer.

If \fIdataflag\fP is true (non-zero) the data samples will be unpacked
when parsing the record.  This argument is passed directly to
\fBmsr_unpack(3)\fP.

\fBmsr_parse_selection\fP will parse the first SEED data record from
the \fIrecbuf\fP buffer that matches the optional \fIselections\fP.
The \fIoffset\fP value indicates where to start searching the buffer.
On success, the MSRecord structure at \fIppmsr\fP is populated and the
\fIoffset\fP to the record in the buffer is set.  See the example
below for the intended usage pattern.

\fBms_detect\fP determines whether the supplied \fIrecord\fP buffer
contains a SEED data record by verifying known signatures, if a record
is found the record length is determined by:

1) Searching the buffer up to \fIrecbuflen\fP for a Blockette 1000.

2) If no Blockette 1000 is found search at MINRECLEN-byte offsets
for the fixed section of the next header in the buffer, thereby
implying the record length.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBmsr_parse\fP returns values:
.nf
  0 : On success and populates the supplied MSRecord.
 >0 : Data record was detected but not enough data is present in buffer,
      the value returned is a hint of how much more data is needed.
 <0 : On error a negative libmseed error value is returned.

\fBms_detect\fP returns values:
.nf
 -1 : Data record not detected or error
  0 : Data record detected but could not determine length
 >0 : Length of the data record in bytes
.fi

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE OF MS_PARSE_SELECTION()
The \fBms_parse_selection()\fP routine uses the initial setting of
\fIoffset\fP as the starting point to search the buffer.  On
successful parsing of a miniSEED record the value of \fIoffset\fP will
be the offset in the buffer to the record parsed.

To properly parse all records matching specificed selection criteria,
a caller must check and manage the value of \fIoffset\fP.  In
particular, when the end of the buffer is reached a value of
MS_GENERROR will be returned and the caller should check if the offset
is still within the buffer length to determine if this is a parsing
error or simply the end of the buffer.

The following example illustrates the intended usage:

.nf
  char *recbuf = <memory buffer containing records>;
  int64_t recbuflen = <length of buffer>;
  int64_t offset = 0;
  MSRecord *msr = NULL;
  int reclen = -1;
  Selections *selections = NULL;
  flag dataflag = 1;
  flag verbose = 0;

  // You probaby want to set Selections
  // For example with a call to ms_readselectionsfile (&selections, selectfile)

  /* Loop over all selected records in recbuf */
  while ( offset < recbuflen )
    {
      if ( msr_parse_selection (recbuf, recbuflen, &offset, &msr, reclen, selections, dataflag, verbose) )
        {
          /* Only print error if offset is still within buffer length */
          if ( verbose && offset < recbuflen )
          ms_log (2, "Error parsing record at offset %"PRId64"\n", offset);
        }
      else /* Succesfully found and parsed record */
        {
          /* Do something with the record, for example print the details */
          msr_print (msr, verbose);
  
          /* Increment offset in buffer for subsequent call to msr_parse_selection() */
          offset += msr->reclen;
        }
    }

  /* Clean up */
  msr_free (&msr);

  if ( selections )
    ms_freeselections (selections);
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmsr_unpack(3)\fP, \fBms_parse_raw(3)\fP and \fBms_errorstr(3)\fP

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
