.TH MST_PRINT 3 2008/11/21 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Printing of MSTrace information.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "void   \fBmst_printtracelist\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", flag " timeformat ","
.BI "                            flag " details ", flag " gaps " );"

.BI "void   \fBmst_printsynclist\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", char *" dccid ","
.BI "                           flag " subsecond " );"

.BI "void   \fBmst_printgaplist\fP ( MSTraceGroup *" mstg ", flag " timeformat ","
.BI "                          double *" mingap ", double *" maxgap " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmst_printtracelist\fP prints a formatted list of the MSTrace
segments in the given MSTraceGroup.  If the \fIdetails\fP flag is
greater than 0 the sample rate and sample count are printed for each
trace.  If the \fIgaps\fP flag is greater than zero the time gap from
the previous MSTrace (if the source name matches) is printed.  All
output is printed using \fBms_log(3)\fP at level 0.

\fBmst_printsynclist\fP prints a formatted list of the MSTrace
segments in the given MSTraceGroup similar to \fBmst_printtracelist\fP
but the format is a SYNC listing.  If a \fIdccid\fP string is supplied
it will be used along with the current system date to create the SYNC
header line.  If the \fIsubsecond\fP flag is true (non-zero) the time
values in the SYNC lines will include full libmseed precision,
otherwise they will be truncted to integer second values.

\fBmst_printgaplist\fP prints a formatted list of the gaps between
MSTrace segments in the given MSTraceGroup.  If \fImingap\fP or
\fImaxgap\fP is not NULL their values will be enforced and only
gaps/overlaps matching their implied criteria will be printed.

The \fItimeformat\fP argument for both \fBmst_printtracelist\fP and
\fBmst_printgaplist\fP controls the format of the resulting time
strings.  Possible formats are:

.nf
0 : SEED time format (2005,146,00:00:00.000000)
1 : ISO time format (2005-05-26T00:00:00.000000)
2 : Epoch time, seconds since the epoch (1117065600.00000000)
.fi

Both \fBmst_printtracelist\fP and \fBmst_printgaplist\fP represent
time overlaps as negative gaps.  For a single sample overlap the value
of the gap is calculated as zero, this will be printed as "-0" or
negative zero to indicate an overlap.

.SH GAP/OVERLAP RULES
The existence of gaps and overlaps is implicit in the structure of the
MSTraceGroup, no special processing is done to detect gaps and overlaps
in these routines.

The value of a gap is calculated as the difference between the time of
the last sample before the gap and the time of the first sample after
the gap.  No sample 'coverage' time is included.

The value of an overlap is calculated as the time between two samples
which represent the maximum amount of timeseries overlap.

When the MSTraces in the MSTraceGroup include a small segment that is
completely overlapped by another larger segment the gap/overlap value
will not be correct for either the smaller segment or the segment
following it.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBms_intro(3)\fP

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
