.TH MS_LOOKUP 3 2006/12/12 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Look up libmseed and Mini-SEED related information

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "char    *\fBms_errorstr\fP ( int " errorcode " );"

.BI "uint8_t  \fBms_samplesize\fP ( const char " sampletype " );"

.BI "char    *\fBms_encodingstr\fP ( const char " encoding " );"

.BI "char    *\fBms_blktdesc\fP ( uint16_t " blkttype " );"

.BI "uint16_t \fBms_blktlen\fP ( uint16_t " blkttype ", const char *" blktdata ",
.BI "                      flag " swapflag " );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBms_errorstr\fP returns a pointer to a string describing the
specified libmseed error code.  The error codes are defined in
libmseed.h and returned by various functions.

\fBms_samplesize\fP returns the sample size based on the specified
\fIsampletype\fP.  In general libmseed uses the following character
sample types:
.sp
.nf
"a" = 1 byte (ASCII)
"i" = 4 bytes (integer)
"f" = 4 bytes (float)
"d" = 8 bytes (double)
.fi

\fBms_encoding\fP returns a pointer to a string describing the
specified data \fIencoding\fP format.  If the encoding format is
unknown an appropriate string is return stating just that.

\fBms_blktdesc\fP returns a pointer to a string describing the
specified blockette type (\fIblkttype\fP).  If the blockette type is
unknown NULL is returned.

\fBms_blktlen\fP returns the total length of the specified blockette
type (\fIblkttype\fP) in bytes.  A pointer to the blockette itself
(\fIblkt\fP) should also be provided along with a \fIswapflag\fP that
should be set to 1 when the blockette is known to have a different
byte order than the host computer.  The length returned includes both
the blockette "header" (type and next fields) and "body".

Technically a pointer to blockette and the swapflag only need to be
supplied when the blockette type is a variable length blockette and
the length is contained within the blockette itself (e.g. blockette
type 2000).  For blockettes of known fixed length (most of them) the
\fIblkt\fP pointer and \fIswapflag\fP are not used.

In the case of blockette type 405 that is variable length and not self
describing 0 will be returned.  In the case of blockette type 2000
that is variable length and self describing the length will be read
from a known offset into the blockette data.


.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBms_errorstr\fP returns a pointer to a static string.

\fBms_samplesize\fP returns the sample size in bytes or 0 for unknown
sample type.

\fBms_encoding\fP returns a pointer to a static string.

\fBms_blktdesc\fP returns a pointer to a static string or NULL if the
blockette type is unknown.

\fBms_blktlen\fP returns the total length of the specified blockette
type or 0 for unknown type.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
