.TH MS_SELECTION 3 2010/01/15 "Libmseed API"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Routines to manage and use data selection lists.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmseed.h>

.BI "Selections *\fBms_matchselect\fP ( Selections *" selections ", char *" srcname ","
.BI "                             hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime ","
.BI "                             SelectTime **" ppselecttime " );"

.BI "Selections *\fBmsr_matchselect\fP ( Selections *" selections ", MSRecord *" msr ","
.BI "                              SelectTime **" ppselecttime " );"

.BI "int  \fBms_addselect\fP ( Selections **" ppselections ", char *" srcname ","
.BI "                   hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime " );"

.BI "int  \fBms_addselect_comp\fP ( Selections **" ppselections ", char *" net ","
.BI "                         char *" sta ", char *" loc ", char *" chan ", char *" qual ","
.BI "                         hptime_t " starttime ", hptime_t " endtime " );"

.BI "int  \fBms_readselectionsfile\fP ( Selections **" ppselections ", char *" filename " );"

.BI "void \fBms_freeselections\fP ( Selections *" selections " );"

.BI "void \fBms_printselections\fP ( Selections *" selections " );"
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines serve as a convienence facility for creating a list of
data selections and using it to match data.  The selection criteria
are the \fIsrcname\fP and optional start and end times.  The
\fIsrcname\fP components in a selection may contain globbing
characters for matching (wildcards, character range, etc.).  A
\fIsrcname\fP is generally composed of network, station, location,
channel and optional quality components; normally these are created
with \fBmsr_srcname(3)\fP and \fBmst_srcname(3)\fP.

\fBms_matchselect\fP checks for an entry in the \fPselections\fP list
that matches the supplied \fIsrcname\fP and optionally \fIstarttime\fP
and \fIendtime\fP.  The start and/or end times can be set to HTPERROR
to mean "any" time.  A selection will match the specified time range
if there is any overlap in time coverage.  If the \fIppselecttime\fP
pointer is not NULL it will be set to the matching SelectTime entry.

\fBmsr_matchselect\fP is a simple wrapper to call \fBms_matchselect\fP
using the details from a specified MSRecord.

\fBms_addselect\fP adds a selection entry to the \fIselections\fP list
based on the \fsrcname\fP and the \fIstarttime\fP and \fIendtime\fP
boundaries.  The source name components may contain globbing
characters for matching including wildcards and character sets, see
\fBSRCNAME MATCHING\fP below.  Note that the \fIppselections\fP is a
pointer to a pointer, if the secondary pointer has not been allocated
(i.e. the list is empty) the first entry will be created and the
primary pointer updated.

\fBms_addselect_comp\fP is a wrapper of \fBms_addselect\fP used to add
a selection entry to the \fIselections\fP list.  The \fInet\fP,
\fIsta\fP, \fIloc\fP, \fIchan\fP and \fIqual\fP source name components
are used to create a \fIsrcname\fP.  The name components may contain
globbing characters for matching including wildcards and character
sets, see \fBSRCNAME MATCHING\fP below.  If a name component is not
specified a wildard matching all entries will be subsituted,
i.e. \fInet\fP==NULL will be interpreted to match all network codes.
As a special case a \fIloc\fP value of "--" will be translated to and
empty string to match the srcname representation of a blank
(space-space) location ID.

\fBms_readselectionsfile\fP reads a file containing a list of
selections and adds them to the specified \fIselections\fP list.  As
with \fBms_addselect\fP if the selections list is empty it will be
created.  For more details see the \fBSELECTION FILE\fR section below.

\fBms_freeselections\fP frees all memory associated with
\fIselections\fP.

\fBms_printselections\fP prints all of the entries in the
\fIselections\fP list using the ms_log() facility.

.SH RETURN VALUES
The \fBms_matchselect\fP and \fBmsr_matchselect\fP routines return a
pointer to the matching Selections entry on success and NULL when no
match was found.  These routines will also set the \fIppselecttime\fP
pointer to the matching SelectTime entry if supplied.

\fBms_addselect\fP and \fBms_addselect_comp\fP return 0 on success and
-1 on error.

\fBms_readselectionsfile\fP returns the number of selections added to
the list or -1 on error.

.SH "SELECTION FILE"
A selection file is used to match input data records based on network,
station, location and channel information.  Optionally a quality and
time range may also be specified for more refined selection.  The
non-time fields may use the '*' wildcard to match multiple characters
and the '?' wildcard to match single characters.  Character sets may
also be used, for example '[ENZ]' will match either E, N or Z.
The '#' character indicates the remaining portion of the line will be
ignored.

Example selection file entires (the first four fields are required)
.nf
#net sta  loc  chan  qual  start             end
IU   ANMO *    BH?
II   *    *    *     Q     
IU   COLA 00   LH[ENZ] R
IU   COLA 00   LHZ   *     2008,100,10,00,00 2008,100,10,30,00
.fi

.SH SRCNAME MATCHING
Entries in a Selections list include a "source name" (srcname) string
to represent matching paramters for network, station, location,
channel and optionally the quality name components.  Each name
component may contain globbing characters to match more than one
unique srcname.

.nf
Valid glob patterns include:
   *       matches zero or more characters
   ?       matches any single character
   [set]   matches any character in the set
   [^set]  matches any character NOT in the set
           where a set is a group of characters or ranges. a range
           is written as two characters seperated with a hyphen:
           a-z denotes all characters between a to z inclusive.
   [-set]  set matches a literal hypen and any character in the set
   []set]  matches a literal close bracket and any character in the set

   char    matches itself except where char is '*' or '?' or '['
   \char   matches char, including any pattern character

 examples:
   a*c             ac abc abbc ...
   a?c             acc abc aXc ...
   a[a-z]c         aac abc acc ...
   a[-a-z]c        a-c aac abc ...
.fi

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
The primary intention of the Selections list facility is to limit data
to a specific selection as it's read into a program.  This is
illustrated below.

.nf
main() {
  MSRecord *msr = NULL;
  Selections *selections = NULL;
  hptime_t starttime;
  hptime_t endtime;
  int retcode;

  ms_addselect (&selections, "IU_*_*_LH?_?", HPTERROR, HPTERROR);

  starttime = timestr2hptime ("2009/1/15 00:00:00.00");
  endtime = timestr2hptime ("2009/1/31 23:59:59.99");
  ms_addselect (&selections, "IU_ANMO_00_LH?_?", starttime, endtime);

  while ( (retcode = ms_readmsr (&msr, filename, 0, NULL, NULL, 1, 0, verbose)) == MS_NOERROR )
    {
       /* Print details if data record matches selection criteria */
       if ( msr_matchselect (selections, msr, NULL) )
         {
           msr_print (msr, verbose);
         }
    }

  if ( retcode != MS_ENDOFFILE )
    ms_log (2, "Error reading input file %s: %s\\n",
            filename, ms_errorstr(retcode));

  /* Cleanup memory and close file */
  ms_readmsr (&msr, NULL, 0, NULL, NULL, 0, 0, verbose);
} /* End of main() */
.fi

The following two calls are equivalent:
.nf
  ms_addselect (&selections, "IU_ANMO_00_LH?_?", starttime, endtime);
  ms_addselect_comp (&selections, "IU", "ANMO", "00", "LH?", "?", startime, endtime);
.fi

As a futher convienence usage of \fBms_readselectionsfile()\fP would
allow the selections to be specified in a simple ASCII file and avoid
the need to directly call \fBms_addselect()\fP.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmsr_srcname(3)\fP and \fBmst_srcname(3)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
